Unity_Learning_Resources.md, before:

## Learning References 

![[Pasted image 20250908141141.png]]
- [Unity Best Practices collection](https://unity.com/how-to#all-ebooks)


## Learning Path 

- [ ] Unity Dots 
	- [ ] Code Monkey DOTS series
	- [ ] Making VR Games Oculus Tutorials


### Learning Priorities

- A0 ECS/DOTS Cause I started it
- A1 VR Basics 
- A2 Unity Basics 
- B1 NetCode
> Cause multiplayer games are bring views 

- C1 Shader Scripting

## VR  and XR

![[Worldbuilding in VR with Unity's XR Interaction Toolkit [DhqCLamOIQk].jpg]]
[YT:Buidling in VR with XR interaction toolkit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DhqCLamOIQk)
 >![[Pasted image 20250908135319.png]] Cook books on how to write a good shaders containes a lot of useful links 
 
 [Make VR Multiplayer Game](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i9GVZp9GZUE&pp=ygUZTWFrZSBWUiBNdWx0aXBsYXllciBVbml0eQ%3D%3D)
 
![[Optimization for web, XR & mobile games in Unity 6 [2J0kDtUGlrY].jpg]]
[YT Optimization for Web/XR/Mobile in Unity 6](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2J0kDtUGlrY)

![[Unity 6 & XR Toolkit 3.0 ： Features You Can't Ignore as a VR⧸XR⧸AR Developer [Seghspj6kow].jpg]]
[Unity 6 & XR Toolkit 6: Features you can't igonore as VR Dev](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Seghspj6kow)
![[How to Optimize a VR Scene - Ultimate Unity VR Performance Guide Part 2 [Jgf3F--VoPg].jpg]]
[How to optimize VR Scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jgf3F--VoPg)
### XR Interation Toolkit Examples
![[Pasted image 20250917032432.png]]
## DOTS 
![[Connecting the DOTS： Let’s make a game with Entities ｜ Unite 2024 [gqJlQJn0N2g].jpg]]
[YT: Let's make game with Entities](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8efRGtRCGJ0)

![[How to Make a Multiplayer Game with DOTS - FULL COURSE [8efRGtRCGJ0].jpg]]
[YT NetCode for Entities](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8efRGtRCGJ0)

## Unity Multiplayer

![[Getting Started with Netcode.mp4 [be37XiDn1mU].jpg]]
[YT Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=be37XiDn1mU&t=267s)



![[Pasted image 20250917054220.png]]
[Small Scale Compatative Template](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.template.multiplayer-ngo@2.2/manual/index.html)


![[Getting started with networking concepts [kVt0I6zZsf0].jpg]]
[YT:Getting started with networking concepts ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kVt0I6zZsf0)

![[Pasted image 20250917054620.png]]
[UGS Documentation](https://docs.unity.com/ugs/manual/overview/manual/getting-started)

## Rendering
![[Understanding URP settings and essentials [HCXCmHgV7Sk].jpg]]
[YT Understanding URP Settings and essentials](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCXCmHgV7Sk)

![[Pasted image 20250908132018.png]]
- [URP for Advanced e-book](https://unity.com/resources/introduction-to-urp-advanced-creators-unity-6)
-
> Hands on experience on creating Unity Shaders 
![[Pasted image 20250908125241.png]]
- [Creating Shaders with URP CookBook e-book](https://unity.com/resources/create-shaders-visual-effects-urp-unity-6)
![[Introduction to the Render Graph in Unity 6 [U8PygjYAF7A].jpg]]
[YT Intro to to Render Graph](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U8PygjYAF7A)

![[Unlocking The Power Of Unity's Scriptable Render Pipeline [9fa4uFm1eCE].jpg]]
[YT Unlocking the power of Unity's Scriptable Pipeline](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9fa4uFm1eCE)

### Shader Academy 

![[Pasted image 20250915125409.png]]
[Shader Academy](https://shaderacademy.com/challenge/intro_0)


## Packages & repos

## New Input System
![[Prototype mobile games faster with the Input System in Unity 6 ｜ Unite 2024 [ptvjumIHxYg] 1.jpg]]
[YT:Prototype Mobile Game faster with Input System in Unity 6](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ptvjumIHxYg)

![[Pasted image 20250917051553.png]]
[YT Input System Tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLX2vGYjWbI0RpLvO3B7aH-ObfcOifMD20)



### CharacterControllerSamples(ECS)
[![](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/CharacterControllerSamples/raw/master/_Documentation/Images/samples.PNG)](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/CharacterControllerSamples/blob/master/_Documentation/Images/samples.PNG)

[Github page](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/CharacterControllerSamples/tree/master)
I plan to check it once upon on my learning jorney of **DOTS** and **ECS**

### Unity Logging 

![[Pasted image 20250916203015.png]]
- [Documentation](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.logging@1.4/manual/index.html)
```csharp
using Unity.Logging;

public class UserLogger: MonoBehaviour
{
    void Awake()
    {
        Log.Info("Hello, {username}!", "World");
    }
}

```

### Unity Recorder 
![[Pasted image 20250916223148.png]]
[Package Documentation](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.recorder@5.1/manual/index.html)
### Unity Splines
![[Pasted image 20250916223641.png]]
- [▶️YT:How to get Started with the spline pacage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IJbH5OZa_is)
- [Package Documentation](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.splines@2.8/manual/index.html)
 
###  ProBuilder
![[ProBuilder for grey-boxing in Unity ｜ Tutorial [YsBniZ5ya7k].jpg]]
-[YT Official tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YsBniZ5ya7k)

Commit message:

Write some notes on Multiplayer

Unity_Learning_Resources.md, after:

## Learning References 

![[Pasted image 20250908141141.png]]
- [Unity Best Practices collection](https://unity.com/how-to#all-ebooks)


## Learning Path 

- [ ] Unity Dots 
	- [ ] Code Monkey DOTS series
	- [ ] Making VR Games Oculus Tutorials


### Learning Priorities

- A0 ECS/DOTS Cause I started it
- A1 VR Basics 
- A2 Unity Basics 
- B1 NetCode
> Cause multiplayer games are bring views 

- C1 Shader Scripting

## VR  and XR

![[Worldbuilding in VR with Unity's XR Interaction Toolkit [DhqCLamOIQk].jpg]]
[YT:Buidling in VR with XR interaction toolkit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DhqCLamOIQk)
 >![[Pasted image 20250908135319.png]] Cook books on how to write a good shaders containes a lot of useful links 
 
 [Make VR Multiplayer Game](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i9GVZp9GZUE&pp=ygUZTWFrZSBWUiBNdWx0aXBsYXllciBVbml0eQ%3D%3D)
 
![[Optimization for web, XR & mobile games in Unity 6 [2J0kDtUGlrY].jpg]]
[YT Optimization for Web/XR/Mobile in Unity 6](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2J0kDtUGlrY)

![[Unity 6 & XR Toolkit 3.0 ： Features You Can't Ignore as a VR⧸XR⧸AR Developer [Seghspj6kow].jpg]]
[Unity 6 & XR Toolkit 6: Features you can't igonore as VR Dev](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Seghspj6kow)
![[How to Optimize a VR Scene - Ultimate Unity VR Performance Guide Part 2 [Jgf3F--VoPg].jpg]]
[How to optimize VR Scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jgf3F--VoPg)
### XR Interation Toolkit Examples
![[Pasted image 20250917032432.png]]
## DOTS 
![[Connecting the DOTS： Let’s make a game with Entities ｜ Unite 2024 [gqJlQJn0N2g].jpg]]
[YT: Let's make game with Entities](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8efRGtRCGJ0)

![[How to Make a Multiplayer Game with DOTS - FULL COURSE [8efRGtRCGJ0].jpg]]
[YT NetCode for Entities](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8efRGtRCGJ0)

## Unity Multiplayer

![[Getting Started with Netcode.mp4 [be37XiDn1mU].jpg]]
[YT Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=be37XiDn1mU&t=267s)



![[Pasted image 20250917054220.png]]
[Small Scale Compatative Template](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.template.multiplayer-ngo@2.2/manual/index.html)


![[Getting started with networking concepts [kVt0I6zZsf0].jpg]]
[YT:Getting started with networking concepts ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kVt0I6zZsf0)

![[The Ultimate Multiplayer Tutorial for Unity - Netcode for GameObjects [swIM2z6Foxk].jpg]]
[The Ultimate Multiplayer Tutorials for Unity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=swIM2z6Foxk)

![[Pasted image 20250917054620.png]]
[UGS Documentation](https://docs.unity.com/ugs/manual/overview/manual/getting-started)

## Rendering
![[Understanding URP settings and essentials [HCXCmHgV7Sk].jpg]]
[YT Understanding URP Settings and essentials](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCXCmHgV7Sk)

![[Pasted image 20250908132018.png]]
- [URP for Advanced e-book](https://unity.com/resources/introduction-to-urp-advanced-creators-unity-6)
-
> Hands on experience on creating Unity Shaders 
![[Pasted image 20250908125241.png]]
- [Creating Shaders with URP CookBook e-book](https://unity.com/resources/create-shaders-visual-effects-urp-unity-6)
![[Introduction to the Render Graph in Unity 6 [U8PygjYAF7A].jpg]]
[YT Intro to to Render Graph](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U8PygjYAF7A)

![[Unlocking The Power Of Unity's Scriptable Render Pipeline [9fa4uFm1eCE].jpg]]
[YT Unlocking the power of Unity's Scriptable Pipeline](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9fa4uFm1eCE)

### Shader Academy 

![[Pasted image 20250915125409.png]]
[Shader Academy](https://shaderacademy.com/challenge/intro_0)


## Packages & repos

## New Input System
![[Prototype mobile games faster with the Input System in Unity 6 ｜ Unite 2024 [ptvjumIHxYg].jpg]]
[YT:Prototype Mobile Game faster with Input System in Unity 6](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ptvjumIHxYg)

![[Pasted image 20250917051553.png]]
[YT Input System Tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLX2vGYjWbI0RpLvO3B7aH-ObfcOifMD20)



### CharacterControllerSamples(ECS)
[![](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/CharacterControllerSamples/raw/master/_Documentation/Images/samples.PNG)](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/CharacterControllerSamples/blob/master/_Documentation/Images/samples.PNG)

[Github page](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/CharacterControllerSamples/tree/master)
I plan to check it once upon on my learning jorney of **DOTS** and **ECS**

### Unity Logging 

![[Pasted image 20250916203015.png]]
- [Documentation](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.logging@1.4/manual/index.html)
```csharp
using Unity.Logging;

public class UserLogger: MonoBehaviour
{
    void Awake()
    {
        Log.Info("Hello, {username}!", "World");
    }
}

```

### Unity Recorder 
![[Pasted image 20250916223148.png]]
[Package Documentation](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.recorder@5.1/manual/index.html)
### Unity Splines
![[Pasted image 20250916223641.png]]
- [▶️YT:How to get Started with the spline pacage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IJbH5OZa_is)
- [Package Documentation](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.splines@2.8/manual/index.html)
 
###  ProBuilder
![[ProBuilder for grey-boxing in Unity ｜ Tutorial [YsBniZ5ya7k].jpg]]
-[YT Official tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YsBniZ5ya7k)
